### Assembly
The main assembly consisted of 122.94x of PACBIO coverage (11,008 bp average read size), and was assembled using MECAT. The resulting sequence was polished using RACON. A combination of syntenic markers from BTx642 and primary annotated genes from BTx623 were used to identify misjoins in the assembly. Syntenic markers consisted of a total of 32,400 unique, non-repetitive, non-overlapping 1 KB sequences that were generated using the version 1.0 S. bicolor BTx642 genome release. The gene set consisted of 12,641 uniquely aligned BTx642 annotated primary genes. Both the syntenic markers and the primary gene set were aligned to the polished assembly. Misjoins were identified as an abrupt change in linkage group. A total of 9 breaks were made. The broken contigs were then ordered, oriented, and assembled into 10 chromosomes using combined syntenic markers and genes from version 1.0 S. bicolor BTx642. A total of 32 joins were made during this process. Adjacent alternative haplotypes were identified on the joined contig set. Althap regions were collapsed using the longest common substring between the two haplotypes. A total of 8 adjacent altHaps were collapsed. Care was taken to ensure that contigs terminating in telomere were properly oriented in the chromosomes, and the resulting sequence was screened for retained vector and/or contaminants. Finally, Homozygous SNPs and INDELs were corrected in the release sequence using ~53.3x of Illumina reads (2x150, 400bp insert). For more details, see [Phytozome](https://phytozome-next.jgi.doe.gov/info/Sbicolor_v5_1).

